Writer Stats


Personas:
Nela Gutt - Experienced writer, "wise" in the ways of SEO analysis
An experienced writer, Nela has been with Suite101 for 4 years and has written 378 articles. Nela is extremely successful with Suite101 and constantly in our top 10 earners. In order to continue her successful ways Nela is constantly trying new approaches to research and writing and carefully monitoring the results.

Nela is about 40 years old and has built a relatively successful life. She finds that she has many commitments and is always on the lookout methods to get a better ROI on her time. Nela has a background in accounting but is now primarily focused on her freelance writing opportunities. 

In order to find new article ideas to write about, Nela likes to look at why people are visiting her articles and see if there are any gaps that she can fill. Nela typically does this by analyzing the top entrance keyphrases to her most recent articles and then feeding that though Google AdWords. She then takes the keywords that come back as having high advertising price and writes articles on those.

Nela is happiest when she can take can identify the impact of different tests she's running and select the ones that help her earn more money over time.

Marvin O'Connell - Out of work and looking for money
Marvin is a 44 year old man who lost his job as Assistant to the VP of Regional Distribution for a major DVD publisher about 6 months ago. Marvin came across Suite101 in the course of sitting on his couch, browsing the web for how to make money from a DVD collection. Marvin is desperate for cash and sees that Suite101 is advertising for writers. Intrigued at the possibility of earning some cash to help cover his mortgage he applied to Suite101 and has now been writing for a a few days.

Marvin wrote his first article on "How to find great DVD deals" and his editor published it yesterday. Marvin is super excited about how much money he is going to earn and can't wait to see the people flood in to read his article. Marvin spends his time on My Suite and waits for page views to come in.

Marvin gets very excited when he sees more page views coming in. Even posting in the forums when he hits the 500 and 1000 total page view milestones.

Andrea Wickenbaum - Put in the time, looking for answers
Andrea has been writing with Suite101 for about two years and has published 124 articles. She comes from an freelance writing background having previously published a regular gardening column in the Des Moines Register and even once having a freelance article published in Home and Garden magazine (a high point of her professional career).

Andrea joined Suite101 on a whim while still writing regularly at the Des Moines Register. She promised herself she would write 50 articles before making a decision about if Suite101 was worth it. By reusing snippets cut from her day to day work she managed to meet her goal of 50 articles in half a year. At this point in time she noticed she really wasn't earning much in the way of money and was disillusioned about page views because she didn't see any strong correlation to what she earned. Because of this she stopped writing for 3 months. During this hiatus Andrea's articles continued gaining search traction and her monthly earnings steadily rose from $31.76 in a month to $117 in a month.

Because of this Andrea realized there was long term potential at Suite101 with the residual model and decided to start writing again. The very first thing Andrea did was review her article stats to see which articles were causing this increase in revenue. Because she couldn't easily compare how article traffic had changed over time Andrea began copying each days stats into a spreadsheet which she uses to try and analyze why her revenue goes up and down. Andrea now spends so much time in the stats that she can predict the total number of page views she'll have at the end of the day by 9am - this gives her a sense of confidence when her page views are increasing. 

Andrea spends a lot of time trying to figure out why her stats are what they are and how she can improve them but doesn't have a strong understanding of SEO or keyphrase targeting. She gets that there isn't direct relationship between page views and revenue, but doesn't really understand why or how. Because she's always looking for more information to help her control her stats she often pops into the forums and asks other writers about things she doesn't understand - for instance if her page views seem to be down for a day she'll post in the forums asking if other people are also experiencing a bad day. Andrea's always looking for explanations why her traffic and revenue are changing either up or down.

Whenever Andrea hits on a rationale that seems to fit the data she gets very excited because she thinks she'll finally have a chance to better control her revenue by doing things that are working and avoiding things that aren't. Whenever these tests of her's fail she gets very depressed.


